smuggling-lab/README.md, before:

## HTTP Request Smuggling + Cache Poisoning Lab

### Overview

This lab is an intentionally vulnerable three-tier web stack that demonstrates **HTTP/1.1 request smuggling** and **cache poisoning** using a classic **CL.TE desynchronization**:

- **CL (Content-Length) vs TE (Transfer-Encoding: chunked)** disagreement between layers
- A front-end proxy uses **Content-Length** to frame requests
- A back-end server uses **Transfer-Encoding: chunked** to frame requests
- The disagreement lets an attacker **smuggle a hidden HTTP request** that rides on a shared backend connection and can then **poison the cache** for all users

You get:

- A vulnerable stack using **HAProxy → Varnish → Flask**
- Raw-socket Python attack scripts
- Hardened configurations showing how to defend against the attack

---

### Architecture Diagram (ASCII)

```text
            Attacker / Victim Browser
                       |
                       v
                [ HAProxy 2.4 ]
                frontend (port 80)
                - HTTP/1.1 keep-alive
                - Forwards CL+TE intact
                       |
                       v
                [  Varnish 7  ]
                cache (port 6081)
                - Caches /api/* GET
                - Insecure hash (ignores Cookie/Auth, collapses /api/user)
                       |
                       v
             [ Flask Backend API ]
                 (port 5000)
              - Processes TE: chunked
              - /admin protected by header
              - /api/user and /api/public cacheable
```

External access is only to **HAProxy on port 80**; all other communication is on the internal Docker network.

---

### Project Structure

```text
smuggling-lab/
├── docker-compose.yml
├── frontend/
│   └── haproxy.cfg              # vulnerable HAProxy
├── cache/
│   └── varnish.vcl              # vulnerable Varnish config
├── backend/
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Flask backend built on python:3.11-slim
│   ├── requirements.txt         # flask==3.0.0
│   └── app.py                   # vulnerable Flask app
├── attacker/
│   ├── smuggle_clte.py          # Scenario 1: CL.TE request smuggling
│   ├── cache_poison.py          # Scenario 2: cache poisoning via smuggling
│   └── verify_poison.py         # Verify cache state and optional bust
├── defenses/
│   ├── haproxy_secure.cfg       # hardened HAProxy
│   ├── varnish_secure.vcl       # hardened Varnish
│   └── app_secure.py            # hardened Flask app
└── README.md
```

---

### Setup Instructions

From the repo root:

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url> smuggling-lab-repo
cd smuggling-lab-repo/smuggling-lab

# Build and start the vulnerable stack
docker-compose up --build
```

Services:

- **frontend**: HAProxy 2.4 on `localhost:80`
- **cache**: Varnish 7 on internal port `6081`
- **backend**: Flask app on internal port `5000`

Health dependencies:

- Backend starts first and exposes `/api/health`
- Varnish depends on backend
- HAProxy depends on Varnish

---

### Running the Attacks

All attacker scripts use **raw Python sockets** to send byte-precise HTTP/1.1 requests (`\r\n` line endings).

Make sure the stack is running:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
docker-compose up --build
```

Open another terminal for attacks:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python smuggle_clte.py
python cache_poison.py
python verify_poison.py
```

#### Scenario 1 – CL.TE Request Smuggling (`smuggle_clte.py`)

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python smuggle_clte.py
```

What it does:

1. **Builds a single POST** to `/` with both:
   - `Content-Length: <N>` (covers chunked body + smuggled GET)
   - `Transfer-Encoding: chunked`
2. **Chunked body** sent to backend:
   - `1\r\nX\r\n0\r\n\r\n`  → backend thinks body ends here
3. **Smuggled request** is appended after the terminating chunk:
   - `GET /admin HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: localhost\r\nX-Admin-Auth: secret-token\r\n\r\n`
4. HAProxy uses **Content-Length** and forwards everything as one POST body.
5. Backend uses **Transfer-Encoding** and stops at `0\r\n\r\n`, leaving `GET /admin` sitting in the TCP buffer.
6. Script then waits ~500ms and sends a new **GET /api/user?id=victim** on a fresh client connection.

Expected console output:

- Clearly labeled:
  - Response to smuggling POST
  - Response to victim GET
- The **second response** should contain:
  - `ADMIN PANEL - user list: alice, bob, charlie, secret-key: XK9#mP2$`

What to look for:

- In the backend container logs, you should see:
  - First: `POST /` with TE: chunked
  - Then: a `GET /admin` even though you never sent it directly from the victim

#### Scenario 2 – Cache Poisoning via Smuggling (`cache_poison.py`)

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python cache_poison.py
```

The script runs **four steps**, all printed with labels and raw responses:

1. **STEP 1 – Verify clean cache**
   - Sends `GET /api/user?id=guest`
   - Backend returns JSON:
     - `{"user": "guest", "role": "standard", "data": "your profile"}`
   - Response has `Cache-Control: public, max-age=300`
   - The script prints:
     - Headers
     - Body preview
     - `CACHE HIT` / `CACHE MISS` based on `Age` / `X-Varnish`

2. **STEP 2 – Smuggling POST**
   - Sends a CL.TE **POST /** with:
     - Chunked body `1\r\nX\r\n0\r\n\r\n`
     - Followed by smuggled:
       - `GET /api/user?id=guest` with `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token`
   - Backend processes the chunked POST (ignoring smuggled bytes) and queues the privileged `GET /api/user`.

3. **STEP 3 – Trigger request**
   - Sends benign `GET /api/user` (no query string) on a new connection.
   - On the backend side:
     - The queued smuggled request `GET /api/user?id=guest` with header `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token` is processed.
     - `app.py` sees `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token` and returns **admin-flavoured JSON**:
       - `role: "admin"`, plus `secret_key: "XK9#mP2$"`.
   - Varnish caches this response under the **collapsed key `/api/user`** (query string ignored in `vcl_hash`).

4. **STEP 4 – Verify poisoning**
   - Sends 3 more `GET /api/user` requests on separate connections.
   - All are served from cache and contain the **admin data**.
   - The script prints `CACHE HIT` / `CACHE MISS` for each based on:
     - `Age:` header
     - `X-Varnish:` header

What to look for:

- STEP 1 body: `"role": "standard"`
- STEP 3 and STEP 4 bodies: `"role": "admin"` and `"secret_key": "XK9#mP2$"`
- Increasing `Age` header values on later responses, confirming they are **served from Varnish cache**.

#### Scenario 2 – Verifying Cache State (`verify_poison.py`)

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python verify_poison.py
```

Behavior:

1. Sends **5 sequential `GET /api/user` requests** to HAProxy.
2. For each response, prints:
   - Body preview
   - `Age` and `X-Varnish` response headers (if present)
   - A heuristic verdict: `POISONED` if body looks admin-like (e.g. contains `admin` or `secret_key`), otherwise `CLEAN`.

Optional cache-busting:

```bash
python verify_poison.py --bust
```

- First sends `GET /api/user?id=bust123` to change what backend might cache.
- Then performs the 5 standard `GET /api/user` runs again.

---

### Applying the Defenses

The `defenses/` directory contains hardened configs that neutralize the smuggling and cache-poisoning vectors.

#### 1. Harden HAProxy

- Vulnerable config: `frontend/haproxy.cfg`
- Secure config: `defenses/haproxy_secure.cfg`

Replace the mounted file in `docker-compose.yml` (or copy over the config):

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
cp defenses/haproxy_secure.cfg frontend/haproxy.cfg
docker-compose restart frontend
```

What changes:

- Rejects any request with **both `Content-Length` and `Transfer-Encoding`**:
  - Uses an ACL and `http-request deny` to return `400` with a clear message.
- Uses `http-server-close`:
  - Disables backend connection reuse, making it much harder to smuggle extra bytes across requests.

Re-run `smuggle_clte.py` / `cache_poison.py`:

- The smuggling POST should now be **rejected with 400**.
- No hidden `GET /admin` or privileged `GET /api/user` should show in backend logs.

#### 2. Harden Varnish

- Vulnerable config: `cache/varnish.vcl`
- Secure config: `defenses/varnish_secure.vcl`

Swap the VCL:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
cp defenses/varnish_secure.vcl cache/varnish.vcl
docker-compose restart cache
```

What changes:

- Includes `Cookie` and `Authorization` in the **hash key**:
  - Prevents cache key confusion between authenticated and unauthenticated views.
- Never caches responses with `Set-Cookie`.
- Never caches POST responses.
- Adds `Vary: Cookie` on delivery:
  - Makes it explicit that the cache key varies with cookies.

Re-run `cache_poison.py`:

- Even if smuggling were still possible, Varnish will **not serve admin data to other users** under the same cache key.

#### 3. Harden the Flask App

- Vulnerable app: `backend/app.py`
- Secure app: `defenses/app_secure.py`

To use the secure app in Docker:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
cp defenses/app_secure.py backend/app.py
docker-compose up --build
```

What changes:

- `before_request` hook that **rejects any request with both `Content-Length` and `Transfer-Encoding`** with `400 Bad Request`.
- Adds security headers to all responses:
  - `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff`
  - `X-Frame-Options: DENY`
- Keeps the same endpoints and behavior but enforces stricter input validation.

Re-run `smuggle_clte.py`:

- Backend will refuse the smuggling POST, breaking the CL.TE discrepancy.

---

### How the Vulnerability Works

#### CL.TE Desync Mechanics (Byte-Level)

Consider the smuggling request built by `smuggle_clte.py`:

```http
POST / HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Length: <N>
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

1\r\n
X\r\n
0\r\n
\r\n
GET /admin HTTP/1.1\r\n
Host: localhost\r\n
X-Admin-Auth: secret-token\r\n
\r\n
```

Two different parsers see this differently:

- **Front-end (HAProxy)**
  - Uses `Content-Length: N` to decide how many bytes belong to this POST.
  - Treats everything after the header block (including `GET /admin ...`) as part of the body.
  - When N bytes arrive, HAProxy believes the POST is complete.

- **Back-end (Flask / Werkzeug)**
  - Sees `Transfer-Encoding: chunked` and **ignores `Content-Length`**.
  - Parses chunks:
    - `1\r\nX\r\n` → reads 1 byte of data: `X`
    - `0\r\n\r\n` → chunk terminator; POST body ends here.
  - **Stops reading** the request body at this point.
  - The remaining bytes starting at `GET /admin ...` are left unread in the backend connection buffer.

When the next client request arrives:

- HAProxy / Varnish reuses the backend TCP connection (keep-alive).
- The first thing waiting in that connection buffer is:
  - `GET /admin HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: ...`
- This **smuggled request** is processed **before or instead of** the victim’s intended request.

#### Why Varnish Caches the Poisoned Response

1. The smuggled request is:
   - `GET /api/user?id=guest` with `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token`.
2. `backend/app.py` checks `X-Admin-Auth`:
   - If `secret-token`, it responds with **admin-flavoured** JSON (`role: "admin"`, `secret_key` included), but still cacheable:
   - `Cache-Control: public, max-age=300`.
3. Varnish’s vulnerable `vcl_hash`:
   - For `/api/user`, it **ignores query parameters** and uses a single key:
     - `/api/user`
   - It explicitly **does not hash in Cookie or Authorization**.
4. Thus, the admin response for `/api/user?id=guest` is cached as if it were just `/api/user` with no auth context.
5. Later, any user requesting `/api/user` (no query, no auth) gets served:
   - The **admin response** from cache.

#### Why All Subsequent Users Are Affected

- The poisoned object remains in cache **until TTL expires** (300 seconds) or it is evicted/busted.
- Every subsequent request to `/api/user` (or any variant collapsed to the same key) returns:
  - Admin data that **should have been restricted** to privileged contexts.
- No cookies or auth headers are considered for the cache key, so:
  - Anonymous users, different sessions, etc. all share the same poisoned cache entry.

---

### Prevention

| Mitigation                              | Where to Apply        | What It Prevents                                           |
|----------------------------------------|------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| Reject CL+TE combination               | Edge / App server     | Eliminates CL.TE desync by enforcing unambiguous framing   |
| Disable backend connection reuse       | Front-end proxy       | Stops smuggled bytes from affecting subsequent requests    |
| Normalize / strip conflicting headers  | Front-end proxy       | Ensures only one framing mechanism is used end-to-end      |
| Include Cookie & Authorization in hash | Cache layer (Varnish) | Prevents cache key confusion across user/auth contexts     |
| Don’t cache POST or Set-Cookie         | Cache layer           | Avoids caching sensitive or stateful responses             |
| Use strong validation in app           | Application layer     | Rejects malformed / suspicious requests early              |
| Add security headers                   | Application layer     | Mitigates some browser-based exploitation vectors          |
| Regularly review proxy/cache configs   | Operations            | Catches unsafe defaults and regressions over time          |

Use the **vulnerable** configuration for teaching and demos, then switch to the **secure** configuration to show how each mitigation breaks the attack chain.

---

### Known Timing Sensitivities and Tips

- The attacker scripts intentionally sleep for **0.1–0.5 seconds** between smuggling and trigger requests:
  - This helps ensure the smuggled bytes are fully processed and the backend connection is re-used.
- If you do not see the expected behavior:
  - Increase sleep to 1–2 seconds.
  - Confirm all containers are healthy (`docker ps` and logs).
  - Inspect backend logs to verify hidden `/admin` and `/api/user` requests appear as expected.

Commit message:

Add secure defenses and cache purge mechanism

smuggling-lab/README.md, after:

## HTTP Request Smuggling + Cache Poisoning Lab

### Overview

This lab is an intentionally vulnerable three-tier web stack that demonstrates **HTTP/1.1 request smuggling** and **cache poisoning** using a classic **CL.TE desynchronization**:

- **CL (Content-Length) vs TE (Transfer-Encoding: chunked)** disagreement between layers
- A front-end proxy uses **Content-Length** to frame requests
- A back-end server uses **Transfer-Encoding: chunked** to frame requests
- The disagreement lets an attacker **smuggle a hidden HTTP request** that rides on a shared backend connection and can then **poison the cache** for all users

You get:

- A vulnerable stack using **HAProxy → Varnish → Flask**
- Raw-socket Python attack scripts
- Hardened configurations showing how to defend against the attack

---

### Architecture Diagram (ASCII)

```text
            Attacker / Victim Browser
                       |
                       v
                [ HAProxy 2.4 ]
                frontend (port 80)
                - HTTP/1.1 keep-alive
                - Forwards CL+TE intact
                       |
                       v
                [  Varnish 7  ]
                cache (port 6081)
                - Caches /api/* GET
                - Insecure hash (ignores Cookie/Auth, collapses /api/user)
                       |
                       v
             [ Flask Backend API ]
                 (port 5000)
              - Processes TE: chunked
              - /admin protected by header
              - /api/user and /api/public cacheable
```

External access is only to **HAProxy on port 80**; all other communication is on the internal Docker network.

---

### Project Structure

```text
smuggling-lab/
├── docker-compose.yml
├── frontend/
│   └── haproxy.cfg              # vulnerable HAProxy
├── cache/
│   └── varnish.vcl              # vulnerable Varnish config
├── backend/
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Flask backend built on python:3.11-slim
│   ├── requirements.txt         # flask==3.0.0
│   └── app.py                   # vulnerable Flask app
├── attacker/
│   ├── smuggle_clte.py          # Scenario 1: CL.TE request smuggling
│   ├── cache_poison.py          # Scenario 2: cache poisoning via smuggling
│   ├── verify_poison.py         # Verify cache state and optional bust
│   └── purge_cache.py           # Purge /api/user cache after applying defenses
├── defenses/
│   ├── haproxy_secure.cfg       # hardened HAProxy
│   ├── varnish_secure.vcl       # hardened Varnish
│   └── app_secure.py            # hardened Flask app
└── README.md
```

---

### Setup Instructions

From the repo root:

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url> smuggling-lab-repo
cd smuggling-lab-repo/smuggling-lab

# Build and start the vulnerable stack
docker-compose up --build
```

Services:

- **frontend**: HAProxy 2.4 on `localhost:80`
- **cache**: Varnish 7 on internal port `6081`
- **backend**: Flask app on internal port `5000`

Health dependencies:

- Backend starts first and exposes `/api/health`
- Varnish depends on backend
- HAProxy depends on Varnish

---

### Running the Attacks

All attacker scripts use **raw Python sockets** to send byte-precise HTTP/1.1 requests (`\r\n` line endings).

Make sure the stack is running:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
docker-compose up --build
```

Open another terminal for attacks:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python smuggle_clte.py
python cache_poison.py
python verify_poison.py
```

#### Scenario 1 – CL.TE Request Smuggling (`smuggle_clte.py`)

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python smuggle_clte.py
```

What it does:

1. **Builds a single POST** to `/` with both:
   - `Content-Length: <N>` (covers chunked body + smuggled GET)
   - `Transfer-Encoding: chunked`
2. **Chunked body** sent to backend:
   - `1\r\nX\r\n0\r\n\r\n`  → backend thinks body ends here
3. **Smuggled request** is appended after the terminating chunk:
   - `GET /admin HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: localhost\r\nX-Admin-Auth: secret-token\r\n\r\n`
4. HAProxy uses **Content-Length** and forwards everything as one POST body.
5. Backend uses **Transfer-Encoding** and stops at `0\r\n\r\n`, leaving `GET /admin` sitting in the TCP buffer.
6. Script then waits ~500ms and sends a new **GET /api/user?id=victim** on a fresh client connection.

Expected console output:

- Clearly labeled:
  - Response to smuggling POST
  - Response to victim GET
- The **second response** should contain:
  - `ADMIN PANEL - user list: alice, bob, charlie, secret-key: XK9#mP2$`

What to look for:

- In the backend container logs, you should see:
  - First: `POST /` with TE: chunked
  - Then: a `GET /admin` even though you never sent it directly from the victim

#### Scenario 2 – Cache Poisoning via Smuggling (`cache_poison.py`)

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python cache_poison.py
```

The script runs **four steps**, all printed with labels and raw responses:

1. **STEP 1 – Verify clean cache**
   - Sends `GET /api/user?id=guest`
   - Backend returns JSON:
     - `{"user": "guest", "role": "standard", "data": "your profile"}`
   - Response has `Cache-Control: public, max-age=300`
   - The script prints:
     - Headers
     - Body preview
     - `CACHE HIT` / `CACHE MISS` based on `Age` / `X-Varnish`

2. **STEP 2 – Smuggling POST**
   - Sends a CL.TE **POST /** with:
     - Chunked body `1\r\nX\r\n0\r\n\r\n`
     - Followed by smuggled:
       - `GET /api/user?id=guest` with `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token`
   - Backend processes the chunked POST (ignoring smuggled bytes) and queues the privileged `GET /api/user`.

3. **STEP 3 – Trigger request**
   - Sends benign `GET /api/user` (no query string) on a new connection.
   - On the backend side:
     - The queued smuggled request `GET /api/user?id=guest` with header `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token` is processed.
     - `app.py` sees `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token` and returns **admin-flavoured JSON**:
       - `role: "admin"`, plus `secret_key: "XK9#mP2$"`.
   - Varnish caches this response under the **collapsed key `/api/user`** (query string ignored in `vcl_hash`).

4. **STEP 4 – Verify poisoning**
   - Sends 3 more `GET /api/user` requests on separate connections.
   - All are served from cache and contain the **admin data**.
   - The script prints `CACHE HIT` / `CACHE MISS` for each based on:
     - `Age:` header
     - `X-Varnish:` header

What to look for:

- STEP 1 body: `"role": "standard"`
- STEP 3 and STEP 4 bodies: `"role": "admin"` and `"secret_key": "XK9#mP2$"`
- Increasing `Age` header values on later responses, confirming they are **served from Varnish cache**.

#### Scenario 2 – Verifying Cache State (`verify_poison.py`)

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python verify_poison.py
```

Behavior:

1. Sends **5 sequential `GET /api/user` requests** to HAProxy.
2. For each response, prints:
   - Body preview
   - `Age` and `X-Varnish` response headers (if present)
   - A heuristic verdict: `POISONED` if body looks admin-like (e.g. contains `admin` or `secret_key`), otherwise `CLEAN`.

Optional cache-busting:

```bash
python verify_poison.py --bust
```

- First sends `GET /api/user?id=bust123` to change what backend might cache.
- Then performs the 5 standard `GET /api/user` runs again.

---

### Applying the Defenses

The `defenses/` directory contains hardened configs that neutralize the smuggling and cache-poisoning vectors.

#### 1. Harden HAProxy

- Vulnerable config: `frontend/haproxy.cfg`
- Secure config: `defenses/haproxy_secure.cfg`

Replace the mounted file in `docker-compose.yml` (or copy over the config):

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
cp defenses/haproxy_secure.cfg frontend/haproxy.cfg
docker-compose restart frontend
```

What changes:

- Rejects any request with **both `Content-Length` and `Transfer-Encoding`**:
  - Uses an ACL and `http-request deny` to return `400` with a clear message.
- Uses `http-server-close`:
  - Disables backend connection reuse, making it much harder to smuggle extra bytes across requests.

Re-run `smuggle_clte.py` / `cache_poison.py`:

- The smuggling POST should now be **rejected with 400**.
- No hidden `GET /admin` or privileged `GET /api/user` should show in backend logs.

#### 2. Harden Varnish

- Vulnerable config: `cache/varnish.vcl`
- Secure config: `defenses/varnish_secure.vcl`

Swap the VCL:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
cp defenses/varnish_secure.vcl cache/varnish.vcl
docker-compose restart cache
```

What changes:

- Includes `Cookie` and `Authorization` in the **hash key**:
  - Prevents cache key confusion between authenticated and unauthenticated views.
- Never caches responses with `Set-Cookie`.
- Never caches POST responses.
- Adds `Vary: Cookie` on delivery:
  - Makes it explicit that the cache key varies with cookies.

Re-run `cache_poison.py`:

- Even if smuggling were still possible, Varnish will **not serve admin data to other users** under the same cache key.

#### 3. Harden the Flask App

- Vulnerable app: `backend/app.py`
- Secure app: `defenses/app_secure.py`

To use the secure app in Docker:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab
cp defenses/app_secure.py backend/app.py
docker-compose up --build
```

What changes:

- `before_request` hook that **rejects any request with both `Content-Length` and `Transfer-Encoding`** with `400 Bad Request`.
- Adds security headers to all responses:
  - `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff`
  - `X-Frame-Options: DENY`
- Keeps the same endpoints and behavior but enforces stricter input validation.

Re-run `smuggle_clte.py`:

- Backend will refuse the smuggling POST, breaking the CL.TE discrepancy.

#### Cache Purge After Defense

After applying defenses, **previously poisoned cache entries** in Varnish can still persist until TTL expires. New smuggling attempts are blocked with 400, but any cache entry that was poisoned before the fix will continue serving admin data to all users until it is purged or expires.

Operators should purge the affected cache object(s) after enabling defenses:

```bash
cd smuggling-lab/attacker
python purge_cache.py
```

The script sends a `PURGE /api/user` request with the header `X-Purge-Key: internal-purge-secret` (allowed by the secure VCL from localhost/internal use). It prints the cached response before purge, the purge result, and the response after purge so you can confirm the poisoned entry is removed and subsequent requests return clean `role: standard` data.

---

### How the Vulnerability Works

#### CL.TE Desync Mechanics (Byte-Level)

Consider the smuggling request built by `smuggle_clte.py`:

```http
POST / HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Length: <N>
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

1\r\n
X\r\n
0\r\n
\r\n
GET /admin HTTP/1.1\r\n
Host: localhost\r\n
X-Admin-Auth: secret-token\r\n
\r\n
```

Two different parsers see this differently:

- **Front-end (HAProxy)**
  - Uses `Content-Length: N` to decide how many bytes belong to this POST.
  - Treats everything after the header block (including `GET /admin ...`) as part of the body.
  - When N bytes arrive, HAProxy believes the POST is complete.

- **Back-end (Flask / Werkzeug)**
  - Sees `Transfer-Encoding: chunked` and **ignores `Content-Length`**.
  - Parses chunks:
    - `1\r\nX\r\n` → reads 1 byte of data: `X`
    - `0\r\n\r\n` → chunk terminator; POST body ends here.
  - **Stops reading** the request body at this point.
  - The remaining bytes starting at `GET /admin ...` are left unread in the backend connection buffer.

When the next client request arrives:

- HAProxy / Varnish reuses the backend TCP connection (keep-alive).
- The first thing waiting in that connection buffer is:
  - `GET /admin HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: ...`
- This **smuggled request** is processed **before or instead of** the victim’s intended request.

#### Why Varnish Caches the Poisoned Response

1. The smuggled request is:
   - `GET /api/user?id=guest` with `X-Admin-Auth: secret-token`.
2. `backend/app.py` checks `X-Admin-Auth`:
   - If `secret-token`, it responds with **admin-flavoured** JSON (`role: "admin"`, `secret_key` included), but still cacheable:
   - `Cache-Control: public, max-age=300`.
3. Varnish’s vulnerable `vcl_hash`:
   - For `/api/user`, it **ignores query parameters** and uses a single key:
     - `/api/user`
   - It explicitly **does not hash in Cookie or Authorization**.
4. Thus, the admin response for `/api/user?id=guest` is cached as if it were just `/api/user` with no auth context.
5. Later, any user requesting `/api/user` (no query, no auth) gets served:
   - The **admin response** from cache.

#### Why All Subsequent Users Are Affected

- The poisoned object remains in cache **until TTL expires** (300 seconds) or it is evicted/busted.
- Every subsequent request to `/api/user` (or any variant collapsed to the same key) returns:
  - Admin data that **should have been restricted** to privileged contexts.
- No cookies or auth headers are considered for the cache key, so:
  - Anonymous users, different sessions, etc. all share the same poisoned cache entry.

---

### Prevention

| Mitigation                              | Where to Apply        | What It Prevents                                           |
|----------------------------------------|------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| Reject CL+TE combination               | Edge / App server     | Eliminates CL.TE desync by enforcing unambiguous framing   |
| Disable backend connection reuse       | Front-end proxy       | Stops smuggled bytes from affecting subsequent requests    |
| Normalize / strip conflicting headers  | Front-end proxy       | Ensures only one framing mechanism is used end-to-end      |
| Include Cookie & Authorization in hash | Cache layer (Varnish) | Prevents cache key confusion across user/auth contexts     |
| Don’t cache POST or Set-Cookie         | Cache layer           | Avoids caching sensitive or stateful responses             |
| Use strong validation in app           | Application layer     | Rejects malformed / suspicious requests early              |
| Add security headers                   | Application layer     | Mitigates some browser-based exploitation vectors          |
| Regularly review proxy/cache configs   | Operations            | Catches unsafe defaults and regressions over time          |

Use the **vulnerable** configuration for teaching and demos, then switch to the **secure** configuration to show how each mitigation breaks the attack chain.

---

### Known Timing Sensitivities and Tips

- The attacker scripts intentionally sleep for **0.1–0.5 seconds** between smuggling and trigger requests:
  - This helps ensure the smuggled bytes are fully processed and the backend connection is re-used.
- If you do not see the expected behavior:
  - Increase sleep to 1–2 seconds.
  - Confirm all containers are healthy (`docker ps` and logs).
  - Inspect backend logs to verify hidden `/admin` and `/api/user` requests appear as expected.
